Johnson Julian wrote to me and it is
peculiar that he alternates in this
comment between referring to himself in
the third person
now Freud himself in the first person
quote this man built a charity from
scratch that liberated thousands of
children from child labor please give me
this sign and God will come back to me
with a sign to let me know if this is
the way I should go for something for
the children or not the reason I built
this village for special needs children
is because I had a dream about the
concept didn't tell me exactly but off
the back of that dream I interpreted
during that day afterwards what was
meant from that dream from God and that
that is this simple truth of the mark of
the beast the seal of God inside your
forehead is the activation of your
pineal gland you breached the seven
seals of revelation and there the right
hand of him was a book written inside
sealed of the back with seven seals you
passed through them seven energy centers
you raised the Christ within you the
mark of the beast on the forehead and on
their hand those persons have shut down
their connection to the seat of their
soul that pineal gland and hand in
mysticism means the hand of every beast
in every man is symbolic of
self-directed activities of the desires
and of the mental qualities the Beast is
the expression of the flesh
consciousness via the flesh and the
lower qualities of man those who have
the seal of God inside their foreheads
the 144,000 are the same number one plus
four plus four plus it was his name it's
a positive human consciousness this man
built a charity from scratch that
liberated thousands of children from
child labor built a village for disabled
children has a home for Street involves
children a rescue for hundreds of dogs
and employs hundreds of people that's
all I'll continue judgment do you think
the Pope can't say something similar do
you think that at any point during the
dark ages do you think that in the
middle of the genocide carried out
against the indigenous people of Mexico
do you think the Catholic
Church would lack a justification of
this kind okay again would you accept
this excuse from a Muslim would you
expect accept this excuse from a
Catholic in the Dark Ages would you
accept this excuse from the Communist
Party sorry how many thousands of
children were liberated and raised as
orphans by the Red Army in China it's a
very interesting history
no there's there's no justification this
on the contrary it's urgent and
critically important that people like
myself and hopefully hopefully some of
you people in the audience get motivated
to scrutinize what charities do their
short term and long term impacts despite
this veil veil of sacredness that so
many charities want to wrap themselves
in John Saint Julian is the leader of a
faith-based charity you may say that he
is in his way the leader of a faith the
leader of a new religion he is someone
who shares his religious views here on
YouTube and I was able to offer a very
mild critique of the position he's now
in just by juxtaposing some short clips
of what his religious views are with his
recent video lamenting the fact that
some people refused to donate money to
support his charity or they abruptly
halt their donations to his charity
because of his stated religious views so
he is aware to whatever extent that he
is at least eccentric or he is regarded
warily by some of the people who would
support his charity work or some people
actually have support as charity work in
the past but decided to stop when they
found out what his faith-based
convictions were John saw my video
criticizing him he sent in a comment
expressing his dissatisfaction I'll read
you that comment and I'll read you the
reply sent him by email this need not be
the end of the conversation there are
questions asked about John Central in
particular that I would love to get the
answers to and we may hear back from him
anymore I'm gonna play you a short clip
from video on his channel you may not
understand immediately why it is I'm
playing this clip in this context but in
a philosophical sense the reason is this
most of us live with a reassuring
delusion that the dark ages were a brief
and exceptional period in the
development of life on earth we like to
imagine that human beings have almost
innately or biologically become more
rational with the passage of time and
that we could never return to the
attitudes that shape the dark ages not
just in Europe but obviously in India in
Asia in the Muslim world and of course
there's really no evidence for that not
even if we're just people who as
scholars go back and read ancient texts
see the way people thought and the
sentiments they had and so on as the
centuries have gone by moreover we just
lived through all of us we just lived
through this episode of the rise and
fall of Isis and the rise of Isis the
Islamic state the Caliphate in the
Muslim world that was a very brazen very
direct attempt to return to the Dark
Ages to return to a specific iteration
of and philosophy of Islam that can be
completely accurately summarised as the
dark ages in every sense of the term the
potential and even the propensity to
return to a society based on pious
ignorance it is with all of us still
it's a part of human nature we have not
overcome and that's ultimately why for
myself there's a pressing need to sound
a dire warning when someone like John
Saint Julian is put in a position of
power yes over the lives of a certain
number of children when he's put in a
position of power as an educator if you
like without any of the controls that
you'd have over a teacher over an
educator in a democratic society without
any of the qualifications so far as I
know we'll come back to that later in in
the video the broader and most profound
question I want to raise here is going
to be return to in a sequel
video in a in a separate video from this
one is the question of in the 21st
century how we can have a society where
a huge crucial part of the political
landscape is taken up by rich people
with no accountability to anyone but
themselves and charities with no
accountability to anyone except their
wealthy donors where people can in
effect make policy decisions with
profound implications for orphans or
poverty-stricken children yes but people
make policy decisions that really have
profound and important implications for
the future of our society as a whole in
a manner that has no public
accountability no public democratic
process where the only criterion the
only question of whether or not you're
qualified is whether or not you have the
money or whether or not you have the
charisma to get rich people to part with
their money to support you and your
dreams Kundalini is the transfer of that
energy
it's the electromagnetic energy which is
constantly causing throughout your body
which is represented as the seven
chakras or the seven endocrine glands
within your body of being the alchemical
centers of the selected electromagnetic
energy it's very straightforward
scientific thing very straightforward
scientific thing for people who bother
to shut up their minds should of their
opinions and actually read it now it
doesn't mean that I'm saying sex is bad
I nearly 34 my wife is 10 years younger
than me she's very beautiful to me I
have a son with her of course we
expressed our love intimately but what I
will say is that Freddie and I hover
respectful rule with one another and she
and I were most trying for asthma and my
mental clarity tipped right off and I
struggled a lot and it was purely
because I was exerting myself secondly
more than I normally would and they
don't compute that as they get older
they have less
ability to restore that energy
expenditure when it comes to sex they
have less it's a fact and this the
amount of orgasms that they have in a
month should reflect that so I calculate
for myself I know for myself at the
moment I should have no more than two a
month that's why I'm on now I'm 33 and
that's happening to me but that's how I
could feel it in my mental health and in
my productivity no more than two a month
but for other men I've spoken to who are
healthy they're the same actually so I
don't think it's part I don't think
lines really playing a big impact in it
but men who were conscious and
understand these things I've spoken to
they to feel that if they do any more
than 2 sometimes 3 a month they feel
much less energy and productivity in
themselves does this seem harmless to
you does this seem like a harmless white
Christian eccentric who just happens to
run a charity raises poverty-stricken
children in Africa would you perceive it
as equally harmless if this man had
brown skin and wore a long white robe
and was running a Muslim school check
your own sense of Eurocentrism on this
people what if this man were running a
school really any other religion that
was a little bit a little bit less
familiar to you it may seem harmless but
it's not for my generation in Canada the
Canadian government really didn't want
to know what was going on in faith-based
schools schools controlled by mainstream
religions like the Catholic Church the
profs in church Judaism they really
didn't want to know anything about it
until the AIDS crisis hit and I remember
a radio talk show people called in
talked to the radio and one person
called in and complained that their
Catholic school the nuns instructed them
to take a pin take a safety pin or a
needle and put holes in the condom
before using
this is of course instead of the nuns
maybe honestly expressing with their own
ethical reservations about condoms this
is a time in Canada this is 20th century
my lifetime I'm not that old
you know when sex education being in the
hands of religious authorities had to be
challenged had to be questioned on the
one hand by the gay rights discourse and
the other hand the urgency of getting
out the message of hiv-aids etc to some
extent concerns about teen pregnancy and
the Government of Canada had to question
they work they were not really inclined
to do so separation of church and state
something that we in Canada do not have
enshrined in our Constitution and how it
applies to this most difficult Authority
issue of yes schools quote-unquote
residential schools the raising of
orphans so on and so forth that has
raised a series of questions that I
think in most countries not just Canada
we still have not answered to this day
sure John st. Julien is a dreamer dreams
are dangerous I'm certain that John st.
Julian thinks that he's giving these
children a scientific education you've
just had indication of what he thinks of
as science you've just had an indication
and you'll see this throughout his
videos of how he is willing to take his
own highly subjective experiences and
project them out onto the world not
merely as objectively real but as a
standard for what's normal and as a
standard for what ought to be now
there's a separate question I have
discussed in other videos in the past
and I probably will discuss again it's
very interesting to me how frequently
people take their own sexual dysfunction
and then try to present it as a virtue
in this case as a kind of spiritual
virtue or religious virtue John st.
Julian is here giving you sex advice and
he's a man who can barely manage
to ejaculate twice a month without
feeling and feeble and so on but he
doesn't claim he doesn't humbly sit here
and tell you that this reflects some
kind of health problem he has oh no no
he says that this is true and ought to
be true for all men he takes himself as
a standard as a norm and he starts
speaking about this prescriptively and
he starts speaking about it if you here
the video as a whole all his videos
cover much the same issue he starts
speaking about it from the pulpit as a
religious leader in his own right
um it's dangerous and I think the danger
would be easier for everyone to perceive
if simply he was wearing a Muslims robes
instead of a Christians rose right and
there were real questions of what
qualifies someone to be a teacher a
caregiver in a position of authority
over children in Canada ultimately
someone had to make the decision no
Catholic nuns can't teach sex education
sex education requires some kind of
formal credential and sciences some kind
of background we need people teaching
real medical facts to children teenagers
etc we need to take this power away from
the hands of the state we can't treat
faith itself as a kind of super
credential that waves away all of those
concerns John st. Julien wrote to me and
it is peculiar that he alternates in
this comment between referring to
himself in the third person and framed
himself in the first person quote this
man built a charity from scratch that
liberated thousands of children from
child labor built a village for disabled
children has a home for Street involves
children a rescue for hundreds of dogs
and employs hundreds of people that's
all I'll continue
do you think the Pope can't say
something similar do you think that at
any point during the dark ages
do you think that in the middle of the
genocide carried out against the
indigenous people of Mexico do you think
the Catholic Church would lack a
justification of this kind okay again
you accept this excuse from a Muslim
will you expect accept this excuse from
a Catholic in the Dark Ages would you
accept this excuse from the Communist
Party sorry how many thousands of
children were liberated and raised as
orphans by the Red Army in China it's
very interesting history no there's
there's no justification this on the
contrary it's urgent and critically
important that people like myself and
hopefully hopefully some of you people
in the audience get motivated to
scrutinize what charities do their short
term and long term impacts
despite this veil veil of sacredness
that so many charities want to wrap
themselves in quote my beliefs might not
match your own but to say I control
children's lives is pathetic and maybe a
little desperate close quote okay John I
I grew up in a colony of the British
Empire okay it's called Canada you know
I take it you're British googling around
the internet was able to find very very
little about your background we had
something called the residential schools
in Canada and that was the way the
church controlled the lives of our
indigenous people or Aboriginal people
um there are many parallels to this
history in the Soviet Union
interestingly very similar residential
schools were set up to forcibly
assimilate a lot of Russia's indigenous
ethnic minorities travel people's um and
that was without belief in Christianity
obviously that was belief in communism
is a doctrine yes you know the
authorities that shape actual a child's
education especially in a residential
school or orphanage situation yes you
have tremendous control over the lives
the children what they eat what they
learn what they read what they do at
their time what kind of job training
they get of course it's it's a position
of tremendous power and tremendous trust
that's plays in your hands and you've
really discussed this yourself
on your own channel I was able to quote
you where people question your
leadership because of your highly
eccentric religious views right so he
continues where is your critique or are
you just advertising your own closed
mindedness here
you're disgusting so there's a spelling
error here with the word you're you're
disgusting to try to put people off a
charity with care workers who won best
caregiver of the Year award just as your
atheist
again the word yours misspell so is
atheists hmm
this level of elocution also makes me
wonder John about your role as an
educator week man our organization
speaks for itself with every governing
body there is good luck waking up and
getting somewhere liquid it's
interesting you said that John I wrote
back and said hi John
I saw you response to my video I assumed
you didn't look into my own background
in humanitarian work research and
humanitarian work and humanitarian work
in practice before sending me this
commentary I assume also that you're
unaware of my work as a scholar of
religion I have quite a robust
background in both fields although none
of it transpired in Africa I know that
Buddhism is one of the religions you
like to selectively quote from as some
kind of spiritual authority let me tell
you I'm one of very few Europeans who
one actually learned pally
the ancient scriptural language - who
conducted original research and three
who is willing to tell the truth about
it this is to say dishonesty is more of
a constraint on scholarship than raw
ability in languages the positive person
guys education has to mean something
right
John Saint Julian talks about Sanskrit
texts did he ever learn to read Sanskrit
John st. Julian is carrying out a
ministry to people in Tanzania I really
searched to find any evidence that John
st. Julian had learned any African
language a Bantu language Swahili John
st. Julian is apparently providing
English language education in a country
that made the decision to abolish
English
language education it just recently in
the year 2015 it was a really momentous
political decision for Tanzania they
decided that really what they need for
their future is to try to get a high
level of proficiency and literacy in
Swahili as the unifying language John
why not with any of these things you you
present yourself as an expert on ancient
sacred texts you didn't learn Greek to
read the Bible you didn't learn Hebrew
or Aramaic either of course um he didn't
learn Sanskrit he didn't learn poly you
didn't learn classical Chinese or
anything else and now here you are in
Africa you're not learning an African
language like Swahili either by all
means write back and correct me wrong
again you don't know my background it's
a direct contrast on all these things
when I lived in terabyte of Southeast
Asia
I learned the ancient scriptural
language of the region and then I also
studied modern living languages in the
countries where I was doing humanitarian
work modern languages like Cambodian and
Lotion today my main language of
scholarship is instead Chinese what I
learned about humanitarian work even at
the University of Toronto was valuable
what I learned in Laos and Cambodia also
was valuable just pause here guys
I took courses on this stuff give one
example look again the value of
education has to mean something I
remember looking at a case study of a
humanitarian project that went
disastrously wrong and you look at a
step by step how people with the best
intentions send up destroying this
poverty-stricken village and of course a
lot of the case studies were less
dramatic than that even in the classroom
in University in Toronto I was learning
things that are really valuable
containing really valuable warnings for
someone in a position of authority like
Johnson Julian John I don't know if you
have any training or education like that
I've searched I haven't found it these
are elements that would prepare someone
in your position to be deserving of the
trust Authority
and responsibility that has been placed
in your hands of course down to earth
scientific secular attitudes would help
knowing the local language if you're
gonna be a religious authority knowing
the ancient language actually being a
scholar or having scholarly attitudes
worth that language they're just making
things up off the top of your head
based on your dreams and fasting and
visionary experiences that might
reassure people too if some of your
authority is gonna be based on religion
um but sure as cynical as I may be about
the state of modern Western academia I
think anyone can recognize that even the
formal education I had in how the
charity sector works how nonprofits work
NGOs work government intervention in
humanitarian crises that must be of some
value greater than zero precisely to
someone in in Johnson Julian's position
so I continue here I have not seen a CV
of yours in terms of what scholarship
education credentials or background you
might have i have googled looking for
one please let me know if there's
something available perhaps you have
more of an education and religion
humanitarian work education etc that i
have assumed or imagined based on your
youtube videos in my case you'll find
out a great deal about my background
both in humanitarian work and input a
scholarship from my youtube videos my
channel is playlists for all the above
and i have a name it's easy to google
iyslah's are who chose you john who
elected you to whom are you accountable
the sad fact is that we live in a world
where power has been placed in your
hands by money alone and the video i
quoted of you showed you facing up to
the one and only form of accountability
you've got and that is accountability to
your donors and you yourself have
noticed your religious views are so
eccentric are so worrying that some of
your donors are standing up and saying
no more it is not difficult for me to
imagine the ideal resume
for someone to do the job that you have
appointed yourself to John and obviously
being fluent in Swahili would be on
there you think you know this too right
maybe Swahili and a couple other
languages I think you know the type of
academic background that would help
someone your position I think you know
even what kind of scriptural background
would make your claims about religion
credible or would at least provide you
with the basis to start generating
credible opinions about the history of
religion and you have none of that John
what you have is the same thing I have a
YouTube channel where you ask for
donations and once you've got those
donations you don't answer to anyone at
all except your dreams your
hallucinations your conscience and your
idea of God and that makes you every bit
as dangerous as a crazy Muslim preacher
as a crazy Hindu preacher
as any other religious authority figure
that you're predominantly white Western
Christian audience might be inclined to
regard with a little bit more scrutiny
with a little bit more skepticism before
putting this kind of awesome
responsibility in their hands
responsibility for the lives of a
certain number of children yes but power
that will in some ways shape the future
of Tanzania sure that I'll have knock-on
effects none of us can fully realize
just as in the history of Canada putting
so much power in the hands of the
Catholic Church and the Anglican Church
in our history of education he had had
knock-on effects that were all still
dealing with to this day
then at that time
[Music]